Oh yes, some more than that. I'm very fortunate
that when Jack Williams came here the second
summer, well he came in the fall, and that summer he
had a commencement, that first summer.
I had the December commencement, and I was knees
knocking together, withdrawn at the words. I was
just trembling up there. He
just admires, he admires.
that because in the fall of fall of 76 i had a
surgical procedure and his he had his office send
me flowers when i was in the hospital and brian and
then when i went to houston for the surgery he had
him sent down there and every time i saw him but boy
that first commencement i was just terrified it
was it was really that's like that's the only one
that i really was terrified, but I never felt
comfortable in front of that, including this last
time. I never really felt comfortable. You always
had this fear of misreading, of getting lost,
because it's really not an easy job. The print is
not very big, and it's very easy to get distracted,
and you really have to bear down and concentrate.
Let's digress a second. Make believe what I didn't
know and love as deeply as you did the man named Jack
Williams. Describe Jack Williams.
I had the greatest respect for him because he did
things. Not that Mr. Rutter didn't. Mr. Rutter did
too. But Jack Williams really set out to make
things happen and to broaden the scope and to make
the university continue to grow, and it did. The
man who came in in the early 80s and then
subsequently went to Iowa State, Gordon Eaton,
was one of the same type. He wasn't as fortunate.
If there were any people who ever knew that. I don't
think, but the board was told that. It's just
because there's such a contrast. The two have
absolutely nothing similar at all, either in
methods or modes. But Rudder was much more quiet. I
can remember Dr. Williams speaking to a faculty
convocation one day and I'm surprised he didn't
get fired on the spot with the number of times he
insulted the Board of Regents. That did get him
into trouble? Yes. You saw Williams at church?
Yes. But only this, it was a high, because I sang in a
choir and didn't see him. I never really had many
visits with him, but I just really admired the man
for what he did. Did you see evidences of his sense
of humor ever? Oh, yes. and uh uh remember we had
some kind of a thing at uh when harry green was the
manager of at that time the aggie land inn when it
was first built they had some kind of a there
In the early 70s.
He was a man whom I really admired and respected a
great deal. He became and always will be my role
model. He'd have to be anybody's. And then I got a
great deal from Eaton. Dr. Williams was followed
by Jarvis Miller. Did any of the other presidents
that came after Williams, did they...
No, no, no.
I enjoyed Frank Vandiver. You can't be around
Frank Vandiver for more than 20 seconds and not
enjoy him. He is a tremendous,
he's an outgoing personality. Friendly, warm, hi
to everybody. I'm an amateur historian as well,
and I found that when he spoke, he had such a
commanding voice when he spoke. I haven't asked
anybody else this question. Of all the presidents
that you have seen in public views, I'm going to ask
the negative. Which ones would you give the
highest grades to which ones for their ability to
handle public events
like commencement and things like that? Who did it
best? Oh, I think Dr. Williams.
He was so comfortable, and so he was in charge. He
made it look like he hadn't prepared, but I now know
he had prepared very well. Mr. Rudder was not a
forceful speaker, mumbled a little bit, and
didn't have good continuity. And then I would
suppose that Dr. Vandiver was probably, would be
next. Because he, again, was so sure of himself in
public. Who was actually responsible for the
operation of commencement?
That's the registrar's show. materials
i've
never had one
21,
22 years. And more time,
because he was And because he was a student affairs
dean in the College of Education, commencement
week was a nightmare for him. And so I figured I had
more time to particularly in those days, because
up until the time when seniors had to take exams,
those of us who taught seniors were through
teaching a week before commencement, or a week
before finals, really. Did you help him to break
him in, Brian?
to a degree, but not that much. He's a very literate
person.
than the others did. It
worked hard, too. Cooper,
very casual approach to everything. He was
concerned with time. Ed just wanted to get it out of
there. And rightfully so. The long-winded
speakers just drove Ed up the wall. Did you
normally sit through all of commencement? Yes. Do
you remember any of the speakers as special?
Oh, yeah. There's been so many good ones. The only
ones that really disturbed me And I guess maybe Dr.
Vandiver was the one who did it more than any of the
rest of them, was they always had at least one
Latino with poor English who just couldn't follow
them. And they were speaking in very politically
stable or politically correct statements. And it
was just a position paper. I detest position
papers for commencement addresses. Do you
remember any incidents on the stage at
commencement, plus or minus? Oh, probably. The
most hilarious one was a young man came up the steps
on crutches one day, got his diploma, got halfway
across the stage, put the crutches under his arm,
and ran off the stage. OK. My last commencement to
attend was the last of the spring commencements 20
years ago in 1980.
And the last person to walk across the stage was a
young woman in biomedical science named Melanie
Zender. Describe what you recall.
I honestly, Haskell, I did not see it. Brian told me
about it. As you heard it described by whomever,
That
I heard. That was about two feet from where I was
seated next to Governor Hobby.
And as I remember it, when she put her hand out, Dr.
Miller says softly, no way I'm going to shake your
hand. And the crowd kind of gasped. She then turned
and put out her hand and he said, ma'am, I'm not
involved in this argument. And Don Carter said,
ma'am, would you please keep the line moving?
Since she was the last of the last of the last
alphabetically, I learned later that her family
thought we had deliberately staged it so that she
would be the last. That was not true. No. And when we
got into the Letterman's Lounge, I remember some
board members saying, serves her right, she's
been a troublemaker, I wouldn't shake her hand
either. Six weeks later, when Dr. Miller is
dismissed, One of the things that I understand
they said to him, orally, but they didn't put it in
writing, is, you refuse to shake hands with an
athlete. Yeah, it was, but I honestly did not see
it. I don't know what I was doing, but I didn't see
it. All right, how did you get involved in athletic
announcing?
I struck up a friendship with Jim Butler in the
summer or fall of 1967. And at that time, his duties
were... He was a student. He was a student worker
for a spec cabin in the athletic department. box
ever came about, I'd really like to do it. I'd like
to
be busy. And he said, okay. And then in the summer of
68, uh, they called me for either. He called me.
They had a guy leave the
football. And I wanted to know if I wanted the job. I
said, sure. So the fall of 68, I was a member of the
statistics crew in the press box for the football
season. At the end of the season, The guy that was
doing the PA in the press box at that time was a guy
named Jim O'Connell. C.K. Essin was doing the
field. C.K. Essin was doing the field. They have a
public address system in the press box. The guy
named Jim O'Connell was doing that. Well, they had
a couple of playoff games that fall, and he
couldn't make them. And I said, Jim, I'm happy to do
it. And so I did. Well, then during the basketball
season, But same year, Jim started missing games,
and every time Jim missed a game, I did it. Well,
then in the fall of 69, they just dropped Jim
O'Connor completely, and I took over the press box
PA, and I also took over basketball, which I kept
until 94, I guess. Describe what it was like to work
into the basketball, huh? What were the learning
experiences?
I don't remember when. I didn't know how.
Did anyone attempt to give you direction? No.
Everything I've done in public address work, I've
done on my own. I started doing public address work
for football when I was a junior in high school at
home. We had a bandstand that the band played in at
the games. And I had a portable PA system that we put
up on that bandstand. And I stood on the bandstand.
And I did the PA for my high school for two years,
junior and senior year, in 1940, fall of 41 and fall
of 42. And then I dabbled around whenever I could.
When I was a student at Iowa State, I spotted the
radio stations on all the home games. The radio
stations would come in, and I worked for the
athletic department as a spotter, learned to
follow players that way.
When I went to Auburn, their high school had never
had anybody do their games when I went there. And so
the fall of 63, I did all their high school home
games. And so I just sort of worked into it. And then
I got into track. And then I got into volleyball.
Kay Don asked me to come and do a volleyball
tournament match for her one day. And so I kept on
doing that. Well, that first day, I did a
volleyball match. You talk about the blind
leading the blind. I didn't know up from down. But I
watched, and I got to where I I knew what was going
on. Describe, for A&M basketball, describe what
you actually did as the announcer. You didn't give
the play-by-play, I know that. My concept of
public address announcers, and of course that's
what got me replaced here in both volleyball and
basketball, is simplicity. And it also created an
opportunity for me I wouldn't have had otherwise.
When the Southwest Conference started having
basketball tournaments, they usually used an
announcer who was at the home place.
They moved it to San Antonio in 1980.
And I said something to Bill Morgan. I don't know
where I happened to see him. I said, Bill, I'll be
happy to do the tournament if you want me to. I'll
come down and do it for you. He said, gosh, I wish I'd
have known that last year. He said, I'd have had you
in Houston. And so I went to San Antonio in 1980 and
did the Southwest Conference Tournament, and
then I did the Southwest Conference Tournament in
81 in San Antonio, and I did the Southwest
Tournament every year until 1993. Now, you said
simplicity. Define what you meant by simplicity.
Who does what in a tournament. very stable tone of
voice both ways, and quit.
When did you first turn the mic on for a basketball
game? At what point in the series of events? I used a
foot lever to operate it. And when somebody scored
a basket, I pressed it. No, no, no. Back to the
start.
You spoke. Basketball, the only thing... You
introduced the team? No. Oh, yeah, we introduced
the teams in basketball, yeah. We introduced the
teams. And asked people to stand for the national
anthem. Yes, that's... And what else? That's
about it. In early years, we introduced the
officials, and then we quit doing that. About 84,
85, along in there. All right, make believe that I
had never been to a game in G. Raleigh White.
Describe in its heyday a basketball in G. Raleigh
White under the longtime basketball coach of
those years here.
It was...
The funny thing with Shelby's teams... He had
teams that would play very, very poorly against
teams they should beat the tar out of, and then play
very, very well against somebody who should have
beat the tar out of him. I had an advantage in
basketball here. I also refereed practically
every scrimmage Shelby had from 1966
until my legs quit in 86. For 20 years, I refereed
every scrimmage he had. The guys knew me, and I knew
them, and he knew me. So I was part of the action.
Now, Shelby was the head coach when you got here.
Yes.
The relationships I've had with Shelby were
really good. We were never really close. It was a
very warm relationship. And when he found out that
I'd been replaced, he was really upset. He was
really upset because he didn't...
What kind of crowds came to games in those days? All
off. Started. Well, but wait and go back before the
fall off.
Don't forget Arkansas. We're slick. It
understood. And I want. One of the most
interesting comments I ever got out of Arkansas,
and it was
who is now the head coach at the University of
Nevada, Reno.
They came in one night, and I went up and talked to
Pat. I said, well, I'm so glad to see you guys.
And then only
a year or so later, Pat was gone by that time, but we
played Arkansas in the finals at San Antonio the
first year I was down there. And I was really
concerned on Saturday that Eddie would fuss about
me doing a game. He never said a word. And it was even
more amusing because after the game was over, I
went in the locker room and said, speak to Steve
Sillis, Steve and Dave, a couple of the
guys. Am I not correct that during that era, those
of us in the stands, when you would start to
introduce the A&M team, that we would yell so
loudly to your voice that sometimes Eddie would
get mad? I have no answer to that. I don't know.
Because I remember one, and what we'd do is drown
you out where you couldn't be heard.
threw it down and it during the game to cool off what
are some memories here what are some high points
and low points in your memory some games that you
remember most
I was sitting down on the floor at the far end, and I
didn't see any of it other than the fact that I saw
the start when... This was the guy from... Billy
Bob?
No, it was Perrette.
I couldn't see anything. I was disappointed
in Stalling's handling of it afterwards. I
thought he defended some people who didn't
warrant defense. But that's another thing. Gene
Stallings is also probably the best friend I've
had here. And I was so, so pleased that they finally
honored him last spring with a distinguished
alumnus, because he certainly earned it.
Well, one was at Houston. That was before I was
doing a PA, but that Houston game was one of them.
the other high the highest other point probably
was shelby went in the southwest conference
tournament with a team that finished last in the
big southwest conference those kids went they
didn't he he only had one basketball player in that
whole bunch that was winston kreit And the rest of
them were just guys named Joe. And they just played
their hearts out and then beat a pretty decent
Baylor team solidly to win the championship. And
that, I think, was really as high a point as I've
seen. Because here was a bunch of guys that, in
fact, it was Shelby himself. He didn't even take a
change of clothes to Dallas with him. Because TCU
had won the conference, and that was the first
opponent. Well, they ended up beating them by
about six points or something like that, and then I
think they beat Texas Tech in the second round.
Then they have Baylor, who had a pretty darn good
team, and they just absolutely squashed Baylor.
That was really an astonishing thing. And then, of
course, some of the things that Tony achieved in
his first couple of years here were good also. Tony
Maloney? Yes. What was the little guy's name?
Tony. But he was really a fire plug. And they won
some games that they shouldn't have won, and they
really played hard. I really felt sorry for Tony
that things turned the way they did, because he
really tried hard, but nothing worked. Just
nothing worked. If you look back over all those
games and various athletic events that you
witnessed, how do you think your faith I'm not
going to ask the negative. Who were your favorite
individual athletes? Oh, start with Randy
Mattson.
Why Randy? Yeah, just because what he did, when he
did it, with what he did, no one up to this point that
I know of has thrown, and maybe somebody did this
spring, has thrown a shot put as far as he did
without chemical assistance. And he was the
first, and he was a super guy. I
can't think of any other brothers. The one from
Snook, Stanley Kerr. I remember telling the
superintendent there, Don, uh names are falling
out of place now but i thought when kerr was a
freshman here i said tell tell leslie that those
feet are his way out of the wilderness he's getting
an opportunity and probably through back through
all of the things that i've had involved with in
athletics the one i'm probably the most gratified
and proud of In 1955, I was practicing veterinary
medicine in the little town of Ida Grove, Iowa, in
northwest Iowa. One of my clients had a son who was a
senior in high school. And I went out there one
morning and he said, Leo's running a track meet and
posting this afternoon. He said, if you can, go
see. So I did. I took the afternoon off and went up.
He's running in a mile run.
And
his dad said, oh, Leo can't go to Iowa State. He was
going to a high school that had 35 students in it.
And they were tenant farmers, and they didn't have
anything. And I said, well, go and see.
a junior as a sophomore, junior, and senior, and
ended up in his he won three letters in cross
country, three letters track, and two letters the
indoor track. Was captain of the cross country
team his senior year. Two months ago, he retired
having gone and been there for 29 years with a PhD in
exercise physiology.